# cluster-analysis
Cluster analysis used for students and or marketing segmentation
A cluster analysis was executed on ABC College (ABC) Adult Learner students derived from three fall cohorts, i.e., Fall 2017, Fall 2018, and Fall 2019. The purpose of the cluster analysis is to identify unique groups of students within the adult learner category, what makes them different, to “put a face” on each group (personas), and to serve as a model for going forward with recruitment, outreach, curriculum, etc. Students qualifying for this cohort had to be at least 25 years of age and registered at a postsecondary course level at the time. Any reference to “students” in this document refers to adult learners in this context.
The clustering algorithm applied was PAM (partitioning around medoids) in the R program. A distance matrix was built using Gower distance for mixed data types in the Daisy package that measures pairwise dissimilarities (distances) between observations in the dataset. This model then identified data clusters according to observations that were most like a single representative observation, or “medoid” , and least like other medoids representing one or more other statistically disparate clusters. In other words, the model groups students according to whom they are most alike and away from those whom they are least alike.
Two distinct adult learner clusters were identified in the ABC data through this analysis from a universe of 689 adult learners.
The cluster data was then compared to industry and employment data with respect to ABC’s service area in the Emsi (Economic Modeling Specialists Intl.) application with the idea of providing the institution with the tools to identify gaps and opportunities in programs in order to best match to industry, and in turn, to student needs.
